Code for Good: United Way of San Antonio – Team 8
Team 8: Thang, Jeffrey, Yashas, Osman, and Rohit

For our data visualization, we chose to program our demo purely in Python because of python supports pyplot. 
Pyplot is a matlab library that allows us to graph data in numerous ways including bar graphs, line graphs, 
and with some tweaking, even histograms. To showcase our demo, we will be using Colab of Google because it 
can display static graph outputs of our data. In order to visualize whether the outcome met the annual target
expectations, we devised 2 methods of doing this. The first was to sum up all the discrete values of the 
12-month period and directly comparing it to the target. This method clearly shows if the goal was met. 
Our other method of showing whether the strategy and program name will make the target involves ARIMA. 
ARIMA is a statistical model that can be implemented in Python for timeseries forecasting. This model is 
useful for when we have less than a year’s worth of data and we want to predict the likelihood of the strategy 
and program meeting the target.

Before setting out to do so, we considered using tableau and chart.js to format our data for visualization. 
However, we ran into problems. Using tableau, we had problems adding in extra data because we do not have the 
full version of the software. While using chart.js, we failed to extract data from the local excel spread sheet
to make our graphs. These are some of the other solutions we considered before deciding on Python. 

In a retrospect, our program could be dynamic if we continue to call the create graph function with the addition 
of new data sets and modification of parameters. As of now, we only have static graph instances that can be generated 
from the local data United Way has provided us. Given more time to carry out our idea, we could develop a front end with 
React that calls the python script to plot the graphs requested by the users especially because these plots can be 
formatted as PNG’s. 
